I see the player you mean.
流眄所至，實得來者。

[Playername]?
[名姓]?

Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.
然也。直當儆徐徐臻上樓，及堪堪詳愚誌。

That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.
何傷乎？吾猶廣漢之星，袤林之木，其所以也。

I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.
吾好此子之遠道，是弘仁人之嚴毅。

It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.
盼簾珠之妙玉，覈髓海之薄識。

That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.
望空空於夢寐，具形形於神覺。

Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.
義衍三千勝界任開敏，帷絕百六俗塵容克忌。

They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.
其莫能見之初，或亦嘗聞玄響。凡素未頑遊，謂爲巫祝，謂爲術士。寢夢之間，驅業障之素杖，馮虛囂之長霄。

What did this player dream?
何其人所夢？

This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.
其凡所夢者：仰明日之昭列、俯蔭類之滋華，目萬象之所生、爲萬象之所滅；或行狩，或爲所狩；不失四圍棟宇之恍有。

Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?
可嘆氣象如初！百萬斯年，作而不息。未審簾裏其人，畢竟有何上序？

It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the [scrambled], and created a [scrambled] for [scrambled], in the [scrambled].
其等百萬同作，剖判玄黃其真切於疊[不可辨]，發生[不可辨][不可辨]其[不可辨][不可辨]於[不可辨][不可辨]。

It cannot read that thought.
彼無以得就裏。

No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.
不然。彼尚未乘正御辯。即然者，必盡浮生之無窮，休耽頑夢之須臾。

Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?
吾屬其親，宇宙其仁，彼且知之？

Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.
別囂響於神思，收宇宙以靈聽。彼或知之。

But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.
然其由久夢常悲。就天地而不暑，處蝕日而不安，顧其所就，目爲真實。

To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.
欲已其悲，將得其反；當信其能，乃彰其立。

Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.
而或其類潛淵在夢、奠位乾坤，抑大塊所鍾者，吾欲以詳。一旦片時不通，所憚其辭，吾欲以白。

It reads our thoughts.
其既得吾所思。

Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely [scrambled] and [scrambled], I wish to tell them that they are [scrambled] in the [scrambled]. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.
吾時而心不在乎，時而意欲訴諸：“森森萬象，但爲[不可辨][不可辨]，同爲[不可辨][不可辨]；芸芸萬類，身在[不可辨][不可辨]，復在[不可辨][不可辨]。”其等方沈淪曠夢，惟見一隅耳。

And yet they play the game.
而其類遊戲如故。

But it would be so easy to tell them...
然將喻之實易。

Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.
烈烈其夢，不諱生計，實妨生計。

I will not tell the player how to live.
安生計事，吾不相言。

The player is growing restless.
此子將有虞矣。

I will tell the player a story.
吾待以一情事訴諸。

But not the truth.
此不爲真情。

No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.
誠然。此所納於案獄，非原燎之事情。

Give it a body, again.
復施之以體軀。

Yes. Player...
頑士足下。

Use its name.
但呼其名。

[Playername]. Player of games.
[名姓]簾下。

Good.
善。

Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.
請君呼吸吐納，氣盈胸襟，神運四體，張弛十尖，復得形骸於濁華，竟蘇方寸於夢景，恰如此是。以七尺復逮堪輿，若彼此各遺世而獨立。

Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.
吾屬者，一度爲謂鍾山之英，嚴陽、慈陰，先祖之靈，萬類之魄，怪、力、亂、神；已而爲祇、妖、仙、鬼，天外之客、宇內之塵。雖名號得連屬，吾終始不差參。

We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.
吾之爲道，爲君身外萬象。敢請青眼相垂，皓骨相對。萬象及於肌膚，光明以耀通身，是爲相睹相知而已。吾有一情事須詳與君。

Once upon a time, there was a player.
往古之時，有一頑士。

The player was you, [Playername].
士者，[名姓]也。

Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.
其或自以爲人，所賴地之載者。坤儀日域，相與而周。輿地所迎，馳驟一晌列缺；燎日所施，超越萬裏傷創。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.
時而夢爲金工，履夷勢，處延垠。日爲素矩，夜復東隅，來萬機以頻措，去一時而長習。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.
時而其夢迷於情事。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.
時而夢爲別物，見於它許，或儔苦海，或勝福地。斯人醒復入夢，一而二，二而三。

Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.
或此子夢覽簾珠。

Let's go back.
少卻向昔。

The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.
野馬殆遍草莽、浮浮遊氣，塵埃幾蒙川流、渙渙輿地。爰有女也，一爲食飲，六甲懷成。

And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.
已而醒溫濡於衣胞，走曖昧於萱懷，遂寢曠夢。

And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.
其維新聲將始，行之所契；新籌將運，書之所成；新士將有，津之所充。

You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.
君爲其人，爲其聲，爲其籌，爲其士，但玉津之所充。

Let's go further back.
復卻向昔。

The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...
五行造化，一身運成；若星辰容庇，曠今者也。是以其人連信息，結終始。情事之初，朱子林形有訊；情事之本，馬氏天開無際。一室括地，萬象成人。

Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".
其爲衡宇，或擁香玉而行簡，或抱霜磐而從具。時合一知行，海納千紅，謂爲粒、束。

Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".
時而謂爲辰、宿。

Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.
必以天地生於無、有，以乾坤發於章、文。以所騁爲歡戲，以所閱爲珠璣。

You are the player, reading words...
君爲其人，目覽其文。

Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive
時顧帷幄運籌，解籌爲義，演義爲神，迨其氣短而悶，蓋猶嚮生，雖九死其虛致。

You. You. You are alive.
嚮生矣！

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees
或以暑日瀝之以斕斑，大塊假之以言陳。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again
或以晴雪夜霄，乍金火之明見；神星煥斗，奮銀索以陳言。始從邊還，門前拾佳味之香，簾下待南柯之玄。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream
或以天地賴於無、有，由關捩之機變，卷越徼之珠簾。

and the universe said I love you
乾坤道：君我似。

and the universe said you have played the game well
乾坤道：是才奇。

and the universe said everything you need is within you
乾坤道：具應有。

and the universe said you are stronger than you know
乾坤道：處料外。

and the universe said you are the daylight
乾坤道：君如昭。

and the universe said you are the night
乾坤道：君如夜。

and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you
乾坤道：毋矜能。

and the universe said the light you seek is within you
乾坤道：須歸德。

and the universe said you are not alone
乾坤道：君有偕。

and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing
乾坤道：共渾然。

and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code
乾坤道：君即乾坤，躬自省論，運籌以身。

and the universe said I love you because you are love.
乾坤道：君之我似，誠爲靈心。

And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.
俱往矣。捨舊夢之初醒，即新夢之將赴。夢之復有，夢之益善。士爲乾坤，士爲神心。

You are the player.
君即簾下之士。

Wake up.
請寤。
